# `check_strain_concordance.sh` - check concordance by pulling variants for a particular strain
Script is used to calculate concordance between a sample present in two VCF files

The script inputs are:
- `ref_vcf` - The reference VCF file which contains the variants for the isotype reference strain you are confirming the identity of your sequenced strain against.
- `seq_vcf` - The VCF file generated by processing the low-coverage sequencing data with the WI variant calling pipeline.
- `sample` - The strain name of the sample ID present in both VCF files.
- `out_dir` - The output directory where the output files will be written.

The script outputs generated from the `ref_vcf` are:
- `SNP.vcf.gz` - A VCF file produced by filtering the `ref_vcf` to only include positions that are SNPs and include only one `sample` strain.
- `SNP.stats.txt` - A text file generated by running the command `bcftools stats` on the `SNP.vcf.gz` file.
- `SNP.vcf_alt.gz` - A VCF file produced by filtering the `SNP.vcf.gz` to only include sites where the `sample` strain has alternative SNP allels in the `ref_vcf` 
- `SNP_alt.stats.txt` - A text file generated by running the command `bcftools stats` on the `SNP.vcf_alt.gz` file.
- `SNP_alt_gts.txt` - A text file generated by running the command `bcftools query` on the `SNP.vcf_alt.gz` file to extract the genotypes of the `sample` strain.
- `SNP_alt.txt` - A text file generated by selecting only the first two columns of the `SNP_alt_gts.txt` file to get the chromosome and position of the alternative SNP alleles in the `sample` strain from the `ref_vcf`.

The script outputs generated from the `seq_vcf` are:
- `seq.vcf.gz` - A VCF file produced by filtering the `seq_vcf` to only include the `sample` strain.
- `seq.stats.txt` - A text file generated by running the command `bcftools stats` on the `seq.vcf.gz` file.



## Usage
- bcftools (default version on RF HPC)

## Software

## Inputs

## To-do